# Automated-control-system-for-air-pollution-detection-vehicles
Vehicles have become an integral part of everyone's life. As we know that a coin has two sides that have their own effects, one of the main side effects is air pollution. Every vehicle is having emission but the problem occurs when it is beyond the standardized level. This emission from vehicles cannot be completely avoided but, it definitely controlled. Now a day accident is a common feature of deaths. The common feature of accidents will be rash driving, drunk and driving, due to minor drivers etc. Rash driving is a nature of driver which causes panic in the traffic and finally leads to accidents. These are critical things to control so we aim to develop a system that reduce rash driving. As a solution to the above problems we aim to build an automated control system for air pollution detection and rash driving prevention in vehicles. This emission of hazards gases can be control by the evolvement of semi- conductor sensor system. Sensors in the system detect the level of pollution gases along with level of ethanol in driver’s breath & indicate it on the display. If the pollution level goes beyond the threshold level the microcontroller alerts the buzzer and displays pollution level on LCD. At the same time, microcontroller activates the timer that indicates vehicle will be stopped after predefined time if appropriate action is not taken by driver. When timer run-out, the vehicle will be get stop due to the fuel supply to engine get stop. For that a relay circuit is used. The GSM sends the alert SMS at registered mobile number with vehicle current location using GPS in the latitude & longitude values.
